
Here's a full guide to the alchemy system. All recipes can be found in-game in the alchemy stand screen,
so don't read this if you'd rather figure things out on your own.

To brew potions, you first need to craft an alchemy stand. Then, place a tin ingot on the top-most slot
and an empty glass bottle right below it to begin brewing your first Potion Stock - the basic building block of actual potions.
From then on, by placing the stock into the bottom slot, you can combine it with various ingredients to create different potions.
Each potion can also be upgraded with Mese in order to enhance their effects. Consult the recipe list in the alchemy screen for more information.

Once you have your potions, you can drink them to gain all sorts of effects. All of them last for 30 seconds, with a few exceptions.
A player can only benefit from the effects of one potion at a time - drinking another one removes the previous effect.

By now you must have noticed that brewing takes a very long time. There is a solution to this, however - alchemy supplies.
You need to craft a few of these and place them around your alchemy stands (in a 5x3 area, to be exact).
Up to 4 of them will reduce the brewing time from 3 minutes to 1 minute. On the other hand, placing multiple alchemy stands within that area
will cause them to stop functioning - if your potions are taking suspiciously long, check out the alchemy screens for the stands to see what's up.
Oh, and remember never to move an alchemy stand while it's brewing - this may cause it to explode. Always remove the ingredients first!

For maximum efficiency, alchemy stands must be placed at most 10 blocks beneath the water level - otherwise the lack of fresh surface air
will interfere with the reactions, reducing the brewing speed by half and rendering alchemy supplies useless. In addition to that,
Oerkkis are known to steal alchemy stands (and no, they do not take care to remove the ingredients first)
so if you still plan to brew potions underground then caution is recommended.

Finally, you may have also noticed that since potions stack in groups of 8, alchemy stands can only work for a very limited time
while you're away. This can be partially worked around - if you place the alchemy stand right on top of a vessels shelf, the newly brewed potions
will be deposited into it once the alchemy stand is full.

--------------
Basic potions:
--------------

- Potion Stock
Ingredient - Tin Ingot (brew into an empty bottle)
Effect - None

- Water-Breathing Potion
Ingredient - Copper Ingot
Effect - User can breathe underwater

- Invulnerability Potion
Ingredient - Steel Ingot
Effect - Makes the user immune to all damage
Duration - 0.5s

- Leap Potion
Ingredient - Gold Ingot
Effect - Increases jump height

- Weightlessness Potion
Ingredient - Obsidian Glass
Effect - User is not affected by gravity, and also immune to fall damage

- Haste Potion
Ingredient - Diamond
Effect - Increases speed; user can climb 1-block ledges but cannot sneak

----------------------
Mese-enhanced potions:
----------------------

All the potions in this list are made by brewing a Mese crystal into another potion.

- Swimming Potion
Base potion - Water-Breathing Potion
Effect - The user can breathe underwater and swim much faster
Duration - 90s

- Immortality Potion
Base potion - Invulnerability Potion
Effect - Makes the user immune to all damage
Duration - 5s

- Agility Potion
Base potion - Leap Potion
Effect - Increases speed and jump height; decreases fall damage; user can climb 1-block ledges

- Flight Potion
Base potion - Weightlessness potion
Effect - The user is able to fly (using the "Toggle fly" key)

- Supersonic Potion
Base potion - Haste potion
Effect - Greatly increases speed; user can climb 1-block ledges but cannot sneak
